README.md, before:

# Custom server with TypeScript + Nodemon example

The example shows how you can use [TypeScript](https://typescriptlang.com) on both the server and the client while using [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/) to live reload the server code without affecting the Next.js universal code.

Server entry point is `server/index.ts` in development and `dist/index.js` in production.
The second directory should be added to `.gitignore`.

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) or preview live with [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/custom-server-typescript)

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/custom-server-typescript)

## How to use

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/), or [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example custom-server-typescript custom-server-typescript-app
# or
yarn create next-app --example custom-server-typescript custom-server-typescript-app
# or
pnpm create next-app --example custom-server-typescript custom-server-typescript-app
```

Commit message:

docs: add todo list and tech decisions to be made

README.md, after:


# TODO

1. [ ] Create a simple front with a client-side direct API call
1. [ ] (Implement long polling? Not sure if I need it after gPRC implementation is done)
1. [ ] Move the API call to a custom server
1. [ ] (Proxy the Twitter API calls for simpler caching?)
1. [ ] Create a protobuf definition of the service and messages
1. [ ] Implement the gRPC server
1. [ ] Implement the gRPC client
1. [ ] (Cache the tweets in a local redis? If I don't cache the external API calls. Figure out how/whether to leverage protobuf for this?)

# Tech calls
- Client: next or svelte?
- Server: next, plain node or something completely different?
- http or express?
- api: gRPC or kafka?
- caching storage. redis?

# Custom server with TypeScript + Nodemon example

The example shows how you can use [TypeScript](https://typescriptlang.com) on both the server and the client while using [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/) to live reload the server code without affecting the Next.js universal code.

Server entry point is `server/index.ts` in development and `dist/index.js` in production.
The second directory should be added to `.gitignore`.

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) or preview live with [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/custom-server-typescript)

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/custom-server-typescript)

## How to use

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/), or [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example custom-server-typescript custom-server-typescript-app
# or
yarn create next-app --example custom-server-typescript custom-server-typescript-app
# or
pnpm create next-app --example custom-server-typescript custom-server-typescript-app
```
